Skip to Main Content
iconfinder_menu-alt_134216 (1).png
iconfinder_menu-alt_134216 (1).png
APF Logo Rebrand LOGO FINAL_APF Logo Purple.png
Search...

Menu Icon

Are you thinking of
having a baby?
Check out our advice & guidance for women who are thinking of

having a baby naturally or via fertility treatment

Discover resources to help you prepare for pregnancy

Is it safe for me?
Being active before pregnancy has many physical and mental health benefits. It is safe to keep up (or start) your regular activity and exercise routine before getting pregnant,

as long as you feel comfortable.

 

There are no exercises that you should avoid while you are trying to get pregnant. Speak to you GP if you are unsure, worried, or if intense physical activity may have caused your periods to stop.

Smiling woman and man cycling
Did you know?
Being active before pregnancy...
Helps you get pregnant
quicker
Helps to maintain or achieve a healthy weight
Sets the foundation for an active lifestyle during & after pregnant
Reduces risks of pregnancy & birth complications
Is great for
your mental health
Are you undergoing fertility treatment?
Sad on Couch
Is it safe to be active during this time?
Being active offers many physical and psychological health benefits for women throughout their fertility treatment journey. Fertility treatment can be a difficult time and is associated with high levels of stress, anxiety, and depression so it’s important to find something that makes you feel good.   

 

If you are already active at a moderate intensity and frequency, then you can continue throughout your treatment cycle as long as you feel comfortable. It’s important to listen to your body as all women have different experiences during fertility treatment. For example, during stimulation some women feel bloated and have difficulty moving their bodies, the injections sites may become sore, or you have less energy to engage in additional physical activity. Others may feel no differences.  

Did you know?
Being active during fertility treatment...
Can improve your chances of conception
Helps to maintain or achieve a healthy weight
Sets the foundation for an active lifestyle during & after pregnant
Increases
energy levels
Helps manage feelings of bloating
Reduces risks of pregnancy & birth complications
Is great for your mental health
Helps manage stress, anxiety & depressive symptoms
FAQ
How do I know what intensity my activity is? 

 

Moderate intensity physical activity is any movement that makes you breathe faster, your heart beat faster, and body feel warmer. During this time you’ll still be able to talk but not sing.  

​

Vigorous intensity physical activity makes you breathe hard and fast. During this time you will only be able to say a few words before pausing for a breath.  

​

What does the research tell us about being active during fertility treatment? 

 

Research studies show mixed findings about the effects of being physically active during fertility treatment. Some research suggests that being active can negatively impact fertility treatment outcomes if women are inactive or extremely active. 

​

Most women are already active, many at a moderate intensity and frequency. This is great news because results suggest this can positively impact fertility treatment outcomes.

 

It's interesting to note that some studies found no difference, therefore we encourage women to be active because of the many wider associated benefits.  

 

Are there any risks? 

 

Have you heard of ovarian torsion? You may have read about it online, or heard your healthcare mention it, it's when the ovary, and sometimes the fallopian tube, twist on the tissues that support them and stops the blood flow. There are conditions which may increase the risk of having ovarian torsion and these include women who have ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), endometriosis, and ovarian cysts.

 

Undergoing fertility treatment increases the risk due to the size of the ovaries. However, this most commonly occurs following egg retrieval, and in only 0.024-0.2% of cases. There are even fewer cases during the time between trigger shot and before retrieval.

 

During stimulation phase, it is recommended that women do not engage in heavy lifting and twisting because of the risk of ovarian torsion.  

​

If you have any concerns we recommend speaking to a healthcare professional.

More FAQ
Sign up to our Quarterly Newsletter
First Name
e.g., Jane
Last Name
e.g., Smith
Email
e.g., email@example.com

>
Please select all options that apply to you. *Required









Support Us
Any Questions?
Are you postnatal?
About The APF
Supporting women to stay active throughout pregnancy and beyond, by providing expertise & advice, changing culture & challenging policy.
Terms & Conditions

GDPR & Privacy Policy

Funded by
SE_TNL_Landscape_2021_Reverse-Mono_4x.png
Keep Updated!
Sign up to our Newsletter
Explore
Are you pregnant?
Have you had your baby?
Fitness, Sport & Healthcare Professionals
Instagram
LinkedIn
Facebook
YouTube
PLEASE NOTE - Where referring to 'women' and 'mothers', this should be taken to include people who do not identify as female but who are pregnant.

Similarly, where the term 'parents' is used, this should be taken to include anyone who has main responsibility for caring for a baby.

Copyright - 2025 by The Active Pregnancy Foundation

Registered Charity Number - 1190780

We use cookies on our website to see how you interact with it. By accepting, you agree to our use of such cookies.See Privacy Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept
Close